our guest tonight of passage in paris
while school holidays began
of the Toussaint it is abderrafie zouiten
Director General of the National Office
Moroccan Tourism Mr. Zouiten
good evening good evening thank you for being with us
we will talk about the destination morocco
of course first of all a word
since to all this anxiety around
mullahs is what Morocco goes or
not give up the organization of the
africa cup of nations which is a
major football event that
must take place at the beginning of the year
next horse on january february
no morocco does not give up you know
bola and pandemic to take very much
seriously and Morocco from the start was
in peak 1 compared to all the
prevention to avoid any risk to the
Moroccan population
in that there had been heard checks
which are made from countries that
are affected but also on arrival
and Morocco follows the recommendations of
the world health organization that
recommended to avoid and
much bigger gatherings and
the can you know it's thousands
of supporters who arrives one on a country
or in any case the organizing country and
this is a major risk to you
imagine a single case during can this
that it can generate
same worry season as in january and
next February the outbreak may still
to have progressed we do not know
why Morocco wanted a postponement
for precisely that's what you
ask the postponement of the peta did
any effect this I often repeat this
precisely the recommendations of the om
is the World Health Organization
but he does not say we stop
no longer organizing is not present at all
managed that this carry forward to justly allow
to better appreciate the evolution of the
situation and I believe that the
responsible for the caf are absolutely
aware of the issue and confederation
crazy African altogether so a
real party is that the cut
of Africa nations ah this is the
fourth media event on the
global plan
so it is important to avoid
transform what was going to be a party
in disaster or a nightmare
so ask you for postponement when
will we know if you get it or not
because they said that also others
country if not to organize the cut no
you are not in the scenario there I
believe that the Moroccan has done very well
prepared for this the organization of
this January 2015 edition of big
means have been deployed
it is quite normal that a principle
of precaution which is extremely
important for the health of our
compatriots and in a general way
of everything that would come to attend
this holiday and there is in principle I believe
in the decision had to be taken early
November I believe November 2nd and you
think so it will be a decision of
report I think so and we wish it
now I think it's a
decision that will be discussed with our friends
from the caf
they are quite aware and in
fully understand the position of the
Morocco in this sense I come now to
the destination Morocco precisely counts
given this context he already had a
geopolitical context that does not touch
Morocco but which affects the Middle East
who could weigh 1.1 kilograms and forgive them
French and then now there is this
epidemic that does not affect Morocco but
you say there are trips one is
obliged to monitor and that's it can
also worried is the destination
Morocco is not in decline while
precisely French tourists
constitute the main sources of
Morocco tourism and destination
Morocco is doing well when we look at
figures since the beginning of this year
compared to the same time of the year
last we are changing + 5
% and the case of the French market is
also present well we have a
growth of + 5% I recall that the
Morocco is the first destination
from France
so Morocco has fundamentals and
that they are and it's true here also those
Moroccans living in France who go
visit their family
not quite and so but the figure
of two million tourists cg
essentially French so that's
in Morocco is positioned as I
do it because our self I have seen
states people of the trip who says balla in this
moment we still have a lot less
reservations to Morocco because it
is this climate of worry
I think you have to look at what I have
explained just now of evolution on
is we
evolution of positive despite a
extreme embarrassment at the start of the
france both for a context
economic a political context is the
Morocco destination to fundamentals of
fundamental quality the quality of
tourist infrastructure assets
of these different regions the quality of
its welcome the world economic forum
just sorted quite recently
Morocco as the third
most welcoming destination at
world and you know Morocco to lead
very important reforms
initiated by his majesty the king since
fifteen years of political reforms that
have allowed it to stabilize
change the country so a
awareness in terms of maturity
policy also on the part of
different actors and I believe when we
that no amalgam can be done
between Morocco and what can happen
in other parts of the world
so there is no after you from
French frilosity despite what we
hear from travel agents
he looks because for example we know
who is also by a French tourist
who instead but it does not concern that the
Morocco to go to the Maghreb say to themselves
today i'm going to greece because
prices have dropped
absolutely not i come back from marrakech
yesterday where there is the country group held its
convention you know that the group has
took the lead globally
there were 200 travel agencies he
are big events going on
to hold in Morocco soon as the
entrepreneurial global this myth
you have big productions
cinematographic who come or who
are underway in Morocco
this is the case of james bond new james
bond is also mission
impossible
we saw a version 5 with tom cruise
we have the film festival
marrakech international
so you see all these events are
locomotives for the future is done
and the French know them well
are close to Morocco who know
very well this destination
so we can continue to shape them
my dog ​​no problem then
abderrafie zouiten are currently two
exhibitions in paris one was
inaugurated this week by the President
of the French Republic Holland is
contemporary Morocco at the institute of
Arab world there too the exhibition on the
Morocco medieval look to it are two
highlights for the relationship
franco moroccan soulim years but i
believe that we must put into perspective
these two exposures she is in
right line of the strategy and
the impulse given by His Majesty the King
mohamed 6 stops cultural dimension and
the organization of these two exhibitions
the louvre with medieval Morocco
the one also from lima that's the art
absolutely contemporary at the institute of
Arab world will enter one of the facets
of this wealth of heritage
intangible of Morocco both on the
cultural plan with magnificent the
array so there is practically 300
exhibitors so at the institute of the world
Arabic but also medieval Morocco
which also shows the evolution of
the history of Morocco and its relationship to
times with europe and africa
the africanity of morocco and something
also extremely important in
the history of Morocco thank you in any case
to come to see us abderrafie zouiten
Director General of the National Office
Moroccan tourism
afo continues on this